README.md, before:

# Easy DIY Geiger Counter (Work in Progress) 

   Current Progress of the Project
 
    Electronics 98% Done
    Code 21% Done.



> IMPORTANT: This is still in progress and Schematics are not yet avaialable, i will add them soon, take any information here confidential and not 100% Accurate. As of now i already builded the Counter but it does not count since i have an Insensitive Tube and i'm waiting for my SBM-20 to arrive safe and sound.
> Meanwhile i'm still working on fixing the code and make it readable by debugghing it with a button at the moment. Will add more informations and videos by the time being

> **SI3BG§** Readings are strange and there is not much information on this tube, and also it's insensitive, despite it still managed to give me some click for background radiation, i think this tube get a lot of interference from light or such idk. also harder to make it work for unexperienced people in electronics.
> Consider getting yourself an SBM-20 for a bit more money.

I have always wanted to have a **Geiger Counter** to check if some things in the garage or around the house that lay here from many years, has some activity, but as you know they are expensive and if you are not gonna use it in a professional way or going in a trip to a radioactive area, there's no use in spending all this money, after some researches online, it opened to me a little bit of roads, this geiger counter is based on the one seen on [**How to Do**](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCLiMtiFkJY6VrFH7K7Yobhw) channel, now i have some basics in electronics and coding, but i have a small understanding of Radiation, so i have been researching to gain some knowledge to make my geiger counter as accurate as possible, this project has same basics and almost same components on the one seen on How to Do Channel, but as it seems on his channel there is a lot of confusion, where people asking for different tubes, conversion to micro sievert and such, also, his counter seems to just copycat the CPS to the mR/hr giving an extremely incorrect reading? (I think?) i'm focusing on uSv/hr since they are easier and convert them later for now, the goal of this project is to make a really easy and customizable code and schematics accessibile to anyone even with 0 comprension of coding electronics and stuff. Hope it will be helpful.


## Why do you think this is gonna work and what makes it accurate?

**Don't take any of my words for granted.** 
But i'm purely optimistic that this will be as accurate as an actual Geiger Counter Using the same SBM-20 Tube.
I have been googling around, and i did a bit of the math necessary, the Conversion Factor for this Tube given by the manufacter is 0,0057. Wich is given by doing some math with the values in the datasheet, and is not accurate you would need to redo the math with more tested elements, and than remove own background radiation of the tube itself, long story short, you would get a Conversion Factor of 0.005777.
So i managed to obtain a list of Conversion Factors for different tube, in wich the SBM-20 is 0.006315
Wich looks legit to me, so i will be using this for now. 
Also notice that the code will be adjusted for this SBM-20 in particular wich is also the most common Tube.
But i will add easy support for a bunch of tubes.
That said, i will try to adjust this geiger counter accordingly.

## Useful Links

[2N3904 Datasheets and Equivalents](https://components101.com/2n3904-pinout-datasheet)
[SBM-20 Manufacter Datasheets](http://www.gstube.com/data/2398/)
[GM Tube Calculator](https://andkom.github.io/gmcalc/)
[Useful Reading for Conversion Factors] (https://sites.google.com/site/diygeigercounter/technical/gm-tubes-supported)

## Components Used

 - Arduino Nano
 - 16x2 I2C (LCD)
 - 2N3904 Transistor
 - 10M Ohm Resistor
 - Around 6, 10K Resistors
 - 16v 100uF Capacitor
 - 470 pF Capacitor
 - DC-DC Converter 5v to 1200v (Aliexpress, find a good seller got scammed a lot on this.)
 - 3,7V Battery of any capacity you like, i used two phone battery's from an LG soldered in Parallel.
 - 1x Switch button for ON/OFF
 - 3x Push Buttons for the functions
 - 1x Led
 - SBM-20 Geiger Tube (Initially SI3BG, but does not count anything, too insensitive)

## What if my tube is not on the list?

If your tube is not in the list, you will need to findout the manufacter sheet, and find the Conversion Factor, if you don't find it you will to calculate the Conversion Factor yourself, you may try to ask to the seller of the tube itself, or around the forums if someone has the same tube and know the conversion factor, or can manage to calculate it for you.

Note: Own Background Radiation can also be called Inherent, Self or Shielded.
You may or not use this information to remove some noise from the conversion to get a more accurate uSv/hr.

|                |CONVERSION FACTOR              |OWN BACKGROUND RADIATION     |
|----------------|-------------------------------|-----------------------------|
|SBM-20          |`'0.006315'`                   | 1 CPS = 60 CPM              |
|SI29BG          |`'0.010000'`                   | Find tube datasheet         |
|SBM19           |`'0.001500'`                   | 1,83 CPS = 109,8 CPM        |
|STS5            |`'0.006666'`                   | Similiar to SBM-20 ??       |
|SI22G           |`'0.001714'`                   | Find tube datasheet         |
|SI3BG           |`'0.631578'`                   | 0,2 CPS = 12 CPM            |
|SBM21           |`'0.048000'`                   | Find tube datasheet         |
|LND712          |`'0.005940'`                   | Find tube datasheet         |
|SBT9            |`'0.010900'`                   | Find tube datasheet         |
|SI1G            |`'0.006000'`                   | Find tube datasheet         |

Commit message:

Project Froze for 1-2 Weeks
Waiting the SBM-20 Tube

README.md, after:

# Easy DIY Geiger Counter (Work in Progress) 

   Current Progress of the Project
 
    Electronics 98% Done
    Code 21% Done.

## Due to problems with the SI3BG Tube, i will wait the SBM-20 to continue on developing this, there will be no more support to the SI3BG, i will focus on SBM-20 and add factors for other tubes aswell. you can adjust them yourself after.

> IMPORTANT: This is still in progress and Schematics are not yet avaialable, i will add them soon, take any information here confidential and not 100% Accurate. As of now i already builded the Counter but it does not count since i have an Insensitive Tube and i'm waiting for my SBM-20 to arrive safe and sound.
> Meanwhile i'm still working on fixing the code and make it readable by debugghing it with a button at the moment. Will add more informations and videos by the time being

> **SI3BG§** Readings are strange and there is not much information on this tube, and also it's insensitive, despite it still managed to give me some click for background radiation, i think this tube get a lot of interference from light or such idk. also harder to make it work for unexperienced people in electronics.
> Consider getting yourself an SBM-20 for a bit more money.

I have always wanted to have a **Geiger Counter** to check if some things in the garage or around the house that lay here from many years, has some activity, but as you know they are expensive and if you are not gonna use it in a professional way or going in a trip to a radioactive area, there's no use in spending all this money, after some researches online, it opened to me a little bit of roads, this geiger counter is based on the one seen on [**How to Do**](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCLiMtiFkJY6VrFH7K7Yobhw) channel, now i have some basics in electronics and coding, but i have a small understanding of Radiation, so i have been researching to gain some knowledge to make my geiger counter as accurate as possible, this project has same basics and almost same components on the one seen on How to Do Channel, but as it seems on his channel there is a lot of confusion, where people asking for different tubes, conversion to micro sievert and such, also, his counter seems to just copycat the CPS to the mR/hr giving an extremely incorrect reading? (I think?) i'm focusing on uSv/hr since they are easier and convert them later for now, the goal of this project is to make a really easy and customizable code and schematics accessibile to anyone even with 0 comprension of coding electronics and stuff. Hope it will be helpful.


## Why do you think this is gonna work and what makes it accurate?

**Don't take any of my words for granted.** 
But i'm purely optimistic that this will be as accurate as an actual Geiger Counter Using the same SBM-20 Tube.
I have been googling around, and i did a bit of the math necessary, the Conversion Factor for this Tube given by the manufacter is 0,0057. Wich is given by doing some math with the values in the datasheet, and is not accurate you would need to redo the math with more tested elements, and than remove own background radiation of the tube itself, long story short, you would get a Conversion Factor of 0.005777.
So i managed to obtain a list of Conversion Factors for different tube, in wich the SBM-20 is 0.006315
Wich looks legit to me, so i will be using this for now. 
Also notice that the code will be adjusted for this SBM-20 in particular wich is also the most common Tube.
But i will add easy support for a bunch of tubes.
That said, i will try to adjust this geiger counter accordingly.

## Useful Links

[2N3904 Datasheets and Equivalents](https://components101.com/2n3904-pinout-datasheet)
[SBM-20 Manufacter Datasheets](http://www.gstube.com/data/2398/)
[GM Tube Calculator](https://andkom.github.io/gmcalc/)
[Useful Reading for Conversion Factors] (https://sites.google.com/site/diygeigercounter/technical/gm-tubes-supported)

## Components Used

 - Arduino Nano
 - 16x2 I2C (LCD)
 - 2N3904 Transistor
 - 10M Ohm Resistor
 - Around 6, 10K Resistors
 - 16v 100uF Capacitor
 - 470 pF Capacitor
 - DC-DC Converter 5v to 1200v (Aliexpress, find a good seller got scammed a lot on this.)
 - 3,7V Battery of any capacity you like, i used two phone battery's from an LG soldered in Parallel.
 - 1x Switch button for ON/OFF
 - 3x Push Buttons for the functions
 - 1x Led
 - SBM-20 Geiger Tube (Initially SI3BG, but does not count anything, too insensitive)

## What if my tube is not on the list?

If your tube is not in the list, you will need to findout the manufacter sheet, and find the Conversion Factor, if you don't find it you will to calculate the Conversion Factor yourself, you may try to ask to the seller of the tube itself, or around the forums if someone has the same tube and know the conversion factor, or can manage to calculate it for you.

Note: Own Background Radiation can also be called Inherent, Self or Shielded.
You may or not use this information to remove some noise from the conversion to get a more accurate uSv/hr.

|                |CONVERSION FACTOR              |OWN BACKGROUND RADIATION     |
|----------------|-------------------------------|-----------------------------|
|SBM-20          |`'0.006315'`                   | 1 CPS = 60 CPM              |
|SI29BG          |`'0.010000'`                   | Find tube datasheet         |
|SBM19           |`'0.001500'`                   | 1,83 CPS = 109,8 CPM        |
|STS5            |`'0.006666'`                   | Similiar to SBM-20 ??       |
|SI22G           |`'0.001714'`                   | Find tube datasheet         |
|SI3BG           |`'0.631578'`                   | 0,2 CPS = 12 CPM            |
|SBM21           |`'0.048000'`                   | Find tube datasheet         |
|LND712          |`'0.005940'`                   | Find tube datasheet         |
|SBT9            |`'0.010900'`                   | Find tube datasheet         |
|SI1G            |`'0.006000'`                   | Find tube datasheet         |
